# CS 136 Final Project: The Bookshelf

## Description:
The project is a book-sharing platform. It can be accessed by running the client.py file in the source code.

## Features
* [x] Clients/Users can join to borrow and lend books to other people
* [x] When someone joins, they can input the books they have and it is saved to our server. 
* [x] Users can search for books on the bookshelf (if a current user has said book) whether logged in or not.
* [x] When a client makes a borrow request, we check if the book is in our database and the
user it is connected to. If the book is found in the bookshelf (our platform), a request is sent to the lender. If not, the client gets a notice that the book is not available in the bookshelf.
* [x] The lender can reply in affirmative to the request and the borrower and the lender are matched.
* [x] The borrower can send a shipping address. They receive a confirmation that the book will be shipped to them.
* [x] After a book has been lent out, if another borrower comes requesting for the same book, we let them know that the book is currently unavailable for borrowing 

## Background
Our project connects book lovers. It enables people to gain quick and easy access to books they are interested in reading. With further development of our project, it would also be a platform where people can share their thoughts, likes, and dislikes on books they have read. 

## Methodology
Python with requests library, Flask library, JSON library. The data will be generated by users and stored by our server. We are using a free PythonAnywhere account for hosting the server and storing data.

## Demo:
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1FjLIiBT_zYQcFRAZY4nD6QYs_DKLsmM3/view?usp=sharing 
 
## Future Work:
We completed 100% of the required goals for our project. However, we did not complete the three optional goals. Currently, our project is accessible through a terminal – client.py file in the Github. Future work would include designing a better UI and implementing the use of login_required() decorator for routes that should only be accessible to logged in users.

## Citation:
* Generate token (generate_key()): https://stackoverflow.com/questions/41354205/how-to-generate-a-unique-auth-token-in-python 
* Password validity function (password_validity(password)): https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/python-program-check-validity-password/ 
